# TetrisEA
TetrisEA
How to run our code:
All of our editable parameters are stored in “params.txt”. PopSize, MaxFitness, and NumberOfGenerations can be any integer greater than zero. Elites and tournament size can be any value between 0 (for elites) or 1(for tournament size) and the population size. CrossoverProbability and MutationProbability are probabilities and thus vary between 0 and 1. Finally, mutation range has only been tested between 0 and 1 but should in theory work for values between 0 and 2. 

Once the parameters are set, the code can be run by calling java TetrisEA (After compiling everything). The output is printed to the terminal but it is recommended that you pipe it to a file. The output is readable by excel if piped out as a csv. The columns are, in order: generation number, best average fitness amongst candidates, average average fitness amongst candidates, the best solution’s coefficient for height, best’s coefficient for complete lines, best’s coefficient for holes, and best’s coefficient for bumpiness. The last two lines have the best overall genome coefficients and the best overall fitness, however the output here is buggy and it is more reliable to look at the lines above it to decipher the best individual.

Finally, there are several arguments that can be changed to edit the level of visualization you want. As one could imagine, visualizing each piece placement slows down the algorithm tremendously, and as such the default is to visualize five trials for the best candidate in each generation. However, by uncommenting out ‘tg.updateGrid(board.getBoard())’ in Player.java you can see how each individual place tetraminos to the board. Also, if you run java Simulate you can view five trials for any coefficients of your choosing. These coefficients are set inside the Simulate.java file itself.
